


08-14-2024 GIT Repos

RECAP:

GIT: Global Information Tracker 
  We use git to push our codes to remote repos and collaborate with other team members or developers/QAs/programmer 

GIT is a VCS (Version Control System)
GIT is a distributed version control system 

Centralized VCS: We do not prefer this as if server is down or there is not network, we can't push our changes 
Distributed VCS: We have a local copy of the server repo and can keep working even though there is issues with server or network

GitHub / GitLab / Bitbucket / Azure DevOps: All hosting tools/apps where we can store our remote repos

SSH: Special type of authentication used instead of username and password
It is more secure and used private-public key pairs
Public is shared with hosting apps while private is in your local 
Private keys is in your local

ssh-keygen: simpliest ssh set up 


HOW TO LINK AND PUSH A NEW PROJECT FROM YOUR LOCAL TO REMOTE
1. Create a local repo (on your machine)
2. Create a remote repo (on GitHub. GitLab, Bitbucket)
3. Initialize the local repo with GIT 
  git init 
4. Link local repo with remote using SSH commands
  git remote add origin <URL>
5. Make some changes 
6. Check the status 
  git status 
7. Track the changes - Stage them 
  git add fileName 
  git add .
8. Commit the changes with a meaningful message 
9. Push the changes to remote repo 
  git push --set-upstream origin master
  git push -u origin master 
  git push


HOW TO CLONE AN EXISTING REMOTE REPO TO YOUR LOCAL
1. Create a new remote repository
2. Clone it to your local (BUT make sure you are on the correct path)
3. Make some changes 
4. Check the status 
  git status 
5. Track the changes - Stage them 
  git add fileName 
  git add .
6. Commit the changes with a meaningful message 
7. Push the changes to remote repo 
  git push --set-upstream origin master
  git push -u origin master 
  git push


GIT BRANCHING
Allows developing different code on the same base.
Makes it easy to work together and collaborate with team members.

git branch 			-> list the existing branches.
git branch <branch-name>		-> create a new branch with the specified name.
git checkout <branch-name> 		-> switch to the specified branch
git checkout -b <branch-name> 	-> create and switch to the created branch.
git branch –d <branch-name> 		-> delete the specified branch.

